#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrbook
\use_default_options true
\master 0000_BA15_wlan_1.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language ngerman
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman cmr
\font_sans lmss
\font_typewriter cmtt
\font_math auto
\font_default_family sfdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.2
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Stichwortverzeichnis
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 35mm
\topmargin 35mm
\rightmargin 25mm
\bottommargin 30mm
\headheight 18mm
\headsep 12mm
\footskip 20mm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language french
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
markright{Abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset

Abstract
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begin{otherlanguage*}{british}
\end_layout

\end_inset

Distributed systems whose communication channels are realized via Ethernet
 networks often require a high degree of failure safety.
 One way to achieve this is the use of a 
\begin_inset Quotes fld
\end_inset

Parallel Redundancy Protocol
\begin_inset Quotes frd
\end_inset

 (PRP).
 The PRP protocol provides redundant data transmission via two entirely
 physically independent Ethernet networks.
 The main focus of this project consists of the evaluation and application
 of appropriate measurement methods, as well as the interpretation of the
 resulting findings with regard to data transmissions which apply the PRP
 protocol.
 In a first phase, several testing scenarios, which address the special
 properties of the PRP protocol were defined.
 To process these scenarios two applications were developed, 
\begin_inset Quotes fld
\end_inset

shck
\begin_inset Quotes frd
\end_inset

, a network load generator and 
\begin_inset Quotes fld
\end_inset

meas
\begin_inset Quotes frd
\end_inset

, a software to capture and analyse measurement data.
 In conclusion, the implementation of the PRP protocol can be said to operate
 stably for the most part and as expected.
 No impairments to the data rate at a data transmission speed of Fast Ethernet
 (100 MBit/s) could be detected.
 Nevertheless, depending on the data volume, an additional, not inconsiderable
 CPU load is usually registered while transmitting data.
 A migration of the of the PRP protocol implementation, currently running
 in userspace, to a kernel module, and also optimization of the implementation
 regarding the communication between physical network adapters and the virtual
 PRP network adapter can reduce the additional CPU workload.
 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
end{otherlanguage*}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
